# Experimental Setup
The experimental setup installed in Middle East Technical University Electrical Machinery Laboratory is shown in figure 1.
As the block diagram of the setup at figure 2 illustrates, the test bench is consist of two electrical machines coupled to each other; an squirrel cage induction machine and a permanent magnet synchronous machine. The IM is supplied through an AC variable frequency drive connected to the grid. The PMSM is drove by a back-to-back AC-DC-AC converter which is also connected to the grid. The back-to-back power converter provides the ability of the two direction power flow to develop a variety of experiments on the setup.
In order to control and monitor the experiment flow LABVIEW interface environment is used on the computer; a supervisory control and data acquisition program provided by National Instruments. An Ethernet connection is used to build a data communication between computer and the drives. The AC drives can be drove with torque or speed reference commands sent by operator of the experiment using the interface program. On the other side, during the experiment a set of data is measured and transmitted to the interface program. A torque transducer placed at the coupling point of IM and PMSM measures and sends the applied torque on the shaft and the rotating shaft speed to the computer. LEM voltage and current transducers are used to gather the electrical variables' data to be monitored at the supplying terminals of the machines. The all data monitoring and test bench controlling job is done via a user interface program seen in figure 3.
Besides a power quality analyzer is connected to the grid connection point of the drives to study the harmonic distortion and the power quality issues.
